1.concurrency: principle and issue with concurrency
2. mutual exclusion,hardware approach ,software,software approch
3. semaphore, mutex,and monition.
4.deadlocks: principle of deadlock, deadlock prevention
5. deadlock avoidance
6. deadlock detection
7. deadlock recovery
intro to concurrency:
1. concurrency is the execution of multiple instruction sequences at the same time.
2. it happens in the OS when there are several process thread running int parll.
3. the running process threads always communicate with each other through shared memory or message passing.
4. concurrency result in sharing of resources result in parll like deadlocks and resources starvation,
5. it helps in techniques like coordinating execution of processes, memory alloc and execution scheduling for maximumize
   throughput.
concurrent processes: two types
            1.overlaped (finish first process then go to another)
            2.interleaved(round robin)

*  principle of concurrency
both interleaved and overlaped processes can be viewed as examples of concurrent processes, they both present the same problems.
the relative speed of execution cannot be predicted. it depends on the following :
  * the activiteds of other processes
  * the way os system handles interrupts
  * the scheduling policies of os.
problem in concurrency
1. sharing global resources- sharing of global resources safely is difficult . if two processes both make use of global variable and both prefer read and write on that variable , then the order in which various read and write are executed is critical.
2. optimal allocof resources- it is difficult for the Ps to manage alloc of resources optimally.


adv of concurrency
1. running of multiple applications- it enable to run multiple applications at the same time.
2. betteer resource utilization - it enables that the resources that are unused by one application can be used for other applications.
3. better avg responce time- without concurrency , each application has to be run to completion before thew next one can be run..

issues of concurrency
1. blocking - processes can block waiting for resources process could . A process could be blocked for long period of time waiting for input from terminal . if the process is required to preiodically update some data, this would be very undesirable.
2. Starvagtion- it occurs when a process does not obtain service to progress.
3. deadlock - it occurs when two processes are blocked and hence neither can proceed execute.



           